With the development of the internet and communication technology, a number of online social media platforms have emerged in recent years, such as Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, and LinkedIn. Weibo, a native online social media platform in China that was launched in 2009, reaches a daily average of 766,000 active users (Bai, 2015). Given its rapid growth, Weibo shows great potential for influencing the Chinese economy and society. For example, a high correlation has been found between the Shanghai Composite Index (SCI), which tracks the daily price performance of all stock in the Shanghai Stock Exchange, and the frequency of Weibo posts with economic content (Fan, 2015). Weibo also influences the development of social events; its fast response speed and active participation by users draw national attention to local happenings and change the behavior of people involved in them (Zhong & Liu, 2013). There is a growing body of literature focusing on social media platforms, including Facebook (Jong, 2015; Wells & Link, 2014) and Twitter (Gruzd, Wellman, & Takhteyev, 2011; Stephens & Poorthuis, 2015), but Weibo is yet to be thoroughly studied, despite its profound economic and social influence.
Weibo is considered a Chinese counterpart of Twitter, and the two platforms share many common characteristics. For instance, like Twitter (and other online social media), Weibo allows a newly created post to be forwarded by other users (hereafter referred to as “reposters,” while a forwarded post is referred to as a “repost”). Additional reposters might subsequently forward the repost, forming an information “cascade” that flows from one repost to the next (Bikhchandani, Hirshleifer, & Welch, 1992). However, unlike Twitter, Weibo has introduced a unique feature that allows reposters to append comments to the posts or reposts. Each commented repost could be further forwarded to generate a series of subsequent reposts. Because all the comments are different and each newly commented repost could lead to a new branch of repost series, the cascade may adopt a tree-like structure.
Many studies have explored the spatial patterns of online social media, particularly the spatial density of reposters’ locations (Stephens & Poorthuis, 2015; Sakaki, Okazaki, & Matsuo, 2010). For most online social media, these locations can be identified from reposters’ profiles. The temporal patterns of reposts have also attracted researchers’ attention in terms of the temporal frequency of reposts, because this information can be readily extracted from the publication time of a post or repost (Sakaki, Okazaki, & Matsuo, 2013; Feng et al., 2015). In a similar way to other online social media, the cascade, spatial, and temporal information of Weibo can also be identified, but unlike other platforms, the diffusion pattern of Weibo has yet to be understood, especially given the addition of comments.
Recent studies have suggested a number of factors related to information diffusion patterns on social media platforms. These include reposters' popularity (Payne, Dodds, & Eppstein, 2009), content topic (Cheng et al., 2014), spatial references (Cramptona et al., 2013), and non-personal participants (Guo & Chen, 2014). The ways in which information diffusion patterns vary under the influence of these factors has not been systematically examined for any platform, let alone Weibo. Comments, as a unique feature of Weibo, could be a potential factor affecting the diffusion patterns, but its influence has not been investigated at all.
1.2 Research objectives
The main objective of this study is to evaluate the variation in three information diffusion patterns (cascade, spatial, and temporal) of Weibo posts under the influence of five factors. The information diffusion patterns are described from the perspective of the cascade structure, spatial density of reposters, and temporal frequency of reposts. The five factors examined in this research are reposters’ comments, reposters’ popularity, topic of the original post, spatial references of the posted content, and the participation of non-personal accounts in the diffusion process (hereafter referred to as comments, reposters’ popularity, topic, spatial references, and non-personal participants).
To attain this goal, we examined the three information diffusion patterns of five Weibo posts, each with a large number of reposts, yet influenced by distinct factors. For each post, all repost information was gathered from Weibo and their diffusion patterns were analyzed.
1.3 Significance of this study
The findings of this research could reveal how certain factors affect information diffusion patterns. For organizations that use social media as their main outreach platform, the results could be used to help improve their accuracy in terms of reaching their target audience, considering effective factors. In addition, the findings could also help researchers to study the social influence of certain posts on various phenomena, in the fields of social science and natural science alike. The methods used in this study to measure information diffusion, from the perspective of cascade structure, spatial density of reposters, and temporal frequency of reposts, could also be useful in analyzing information diffusion on other social media platforms.
